---
templateKey: "blog-post"
title: "Flood Day"
date: "2018-08-08T16:55:10.000Z"
description: >-
  What to do when your house floods? Write a blog about it
caption: Here's some papa devs who know how to use their time...
canonical: ""
tags:
  - living-with-code
  - javascript
  - podcasts
---

Last night at 4am I woke up to the sound of what I thought was a dripping tap (its context within my dream I forget exactly but I remember it having something to do with an aeroplane and Ross Kemp) but turned out to be our bathroom flooding into the living room downstairs. Apart from a really nice leather rocking chair and a few hours without electricity nothing has been lost, but unsurprisingly the day was eaten up with plumber visits, insurance calls and trips to the Co-op for consolatory pastries.

## Homecare

I wasn't about to abandon my wife to entertaining our children along with all the logistics and squeegeeing, so I was off work. I like to keep my finger on the pulse with what's going on, but that's really difficult when you have a five year old and six month old who both want to be sat on your knee and one of them's favourite pasttime is pulling the hair of the other. My total contribution to the day at work was weighing in an hour late on a discussion on the uniquity JavaScript symbols on Slack, then calling up a colleague at 9pm to discuss what had happened that day.

So much as I like to think I was being useful, it wasn't in the way I had expected when I went to bed that night planning how I might make some quick adaptations to a lecture on browser fetch and local storage in the morning. Switching mindsets has never been easy for me - I'm reluctant to delve into dev work when I know there's a good chance of interruption, and when I can finally decompress - say on holiday - coding won't enter my thought process for the entire day.

## Coding with kids

For most of my coding life I've had children so I never got to experience much of the heady days of immersion that many people get when they start taking it seriously around college / university. I've always had to juggle the two. Listening to the JavaScript podcast [Syntax](https://syntax.fm/) which is hosted by two relatively new fathers but old hat JS maestros, Wes Bos and Scott Tolinsky, elicits both feelings of empathy, as they describe the hazy days that follow sleepless nights, and jealousy that they had figured out what they wanted to do with their life well beforehand and had a good run at it before they carved out space for something else.

I do my best to make the time count when I do have it, but I'd love to hear from anyone who has any tips on how to do this because I know I don't have it down. Particularly those of you who've picked up coding with a life already attached. When I get round to attaching contact information to this site, you could do it there, or just use that lil' Twitter birdie up top there.
